Realtime-Traffic-Detection
==========================

Video surveillance units are usually the first element of a security system. While they are the most intuitive to understand and can be programmed for many tasks, they also have many vulnerabilities, such as sensitivity to light levels and large computational requirements.   The article presents an application of computer vision methods to traffic flow monitoring and road traffic analysis. The application is utilizing image-processing methods using OpenCV library designed and modified to the needs of road traffic analysis. This method gives functional capabilities of the system to monitor the road, to initiate automated vehicle tracking, to measure the average speed. This system is based on stationary video cameras and an onboard arm processor running on android or linux processing the video and sending the processed data to a central server connected to wide area network or through GPRS.  This software was made to save users time so that they don’t get stuck in traffic jams and avoid them beforehand as they have prior knowledge about the traffic conditions on the alternate routes, so that users could choose the route with least traffic and hence shall reach his/her destination hassle free.  What users need to do is, subscribe to the routes (from their android phone) in a particular area, our software will tell the user about the traffic density in each of the alternate routes available in that area and suggest the best route with least traffic to the user.  Therefore by using our software from any android device, the user will enjoy a hassle free ride towards his destination.
